Jesus compared our days
with the days of Noah.
Jesus would know because he was in heaven
and watched the days of Noah
go from bad to worse.
Well, how bad were the days of Noah?
Let’s look at Genesis 6:5 for a description:
“Consequently, Jehovah saw
“that man’s wickedness was great on the earth
“and that every inclination of the thoughts
of his heart was only bad all the time.”
The wickedness on the earth was made worse
by wicked angels
that abandoned their role in heaven
and materialized
into human bodies to marry women on earth.
These unholy marriages produced sons
that were giants called Nephilim.
Now, parents, we could ask,
Can you imagine what it must have been like
for Noah and his wife
to raise a family in that ungodly world?
But you don’t really need
to imagine it, do you?
Just one look around us and we can all see
that we live in a world
that fits the same description,
if not worse, than the days of Noah.
Just as Noah’s faith was tested,
your faith will likely be tested too
as you raise a family in this ungodly world.
Please do not allow the pressures at work,
from relatives, or from others
make you think that material things
are more important
than your family’s relationship with Jehovah.
You can remain faithful
by imitating Noah, not his neighbors.
In the following dramatization,
note how a parent’s faith is tested.
Another busy day:
My daughter is going to preach,
I’m off to work,
and it’s Family Worship night.
Bye, Dad.
Have a good day, Sweetie.
All right, listen up!
I’ve got an announcement for everybody.
Starting this Monday . . .
What?
More required overtime?
OK, that’s it.
That’s all I’ve got.
Let’s get back to work!
It’s extra money.
But how can I do it and  take care of Regina?
. . . to your local channel 17,
where news comes first.
Dad, isn’t it Family Worship night?
. . . to affect millions
as economies are . . .
Maybe a little later, Sweetie.
. . . the worst financial crisis in decades.
Violence and looting continue . . .
I wanted to, but I was spent
—again.
Our brother knew it was Family Worship night,
but extra work and the pressures of life
were dragging him down.
His faith was being tested.
Would he imitate Noah or his neighbors?
Noah’s neighbors lacked faith.
They did not do what was needed
to save their families.
Instead, Jesus said they were so distracted
by their daily lives, “eating and drinking”
and getting married
that “they took no note
until the Flood came
and [took] them all away.”
In contrast, Noah took note.
Noah acted in faith to save his household.
Look at the beautiful description
of Noah’s faith
in Hebrews 11:7:
“By faith Noah,
after receiving divine warning
“of things not yet seen, showed godly fear
“and constructed an ark
for the saving of his household;
“and through this faith
he condemned the world,
“and he became an heir of the righteousness
that results from faith.”
Noah’s actions saved his household.
We can be sure it was not always easy
for Noah to explain to his sons
why they were building an ark
and no one else was
or why building it was more important
than anything else they had to do.
His three boys would have seen the Nephilim.
Noah and his wife
could hardly have shielded their boys
from all the stories
that circulated about those giants.
Imagine some of the discussions
that Noah and his wife had with their boys.
The materialized wicked angels
and their Nephilim sons
were men of fame and admired by everyone
for their superhuman capabilities.
Even today, people
are fascinated with stories
and movies of humans with superpowers.
But those wicked angels
and their sons, the Nephilim,
were nothing to be admired or imitated.
Noah taught his sons
not to admire or copy them.
They had to help their boys see
that Jehovah felt hurt by the violence
and rebellion in the world.
The boys needed to learn
to love Jehovah and imitate him.
Parents, take the time to teach your children
to hate what Jehovah hates
and to love what Jehovah loves.
Jehovah hates liars, cheaters,
bullies, selfishness, and greed.
On the other hand, Jehovah loves honesty,
peace, love, sharing, and self-control.
Noah, like any good father,
wanted to make sure his family
had a comfortable place to live
and good food to eat.
Think of the houses that Noah and his sons
could have built for themselves.
They certainly had
the construction experience.
But that was not Noah’s focus.
Noah’s life had more meaning and purpose
than building houses, eating, and drinking.
Noah taught by example and kept his focus
on saving his household
from the coming Flood.
He likely had times
when he felt tired or overwhelmed
with the sheer size
and scope of building an ark.
However, Noah
did not allow his day-to-day life
to crowd out his service to Jehovah.
He made sure that no matter what else
was happening in his life,
the work of building the ark
kept moving forward.
Our brother we saw in the video
—he was tired and overwhelmed
by his work and job.
All of us can identify with how he feels.
Life in this system is hard.
We appreciate the hard work and effort
that you parents are making
to keep a good spiritual routine
for your family.
We know how tempting it can be to say:
“Well, we’ll study later”
or “We’ll pick it up again next week.”
See the danger.
Putting off our spiritual routine this week
can easily lead to three weeks
and then six weeks and then not at all.
Jehovah took care
of Noah and his family’s material needs,
so you can be confident that Jehovah
will take care of you and your family.
He will bless you for your obedience.
In the following dramatization,
note how our brother imitates Noah’s faith.
Violence and looting continue
despite curfews . . .
The world is such a mess.
It’s everything Jesus said it would be.
She’s so good
—spiritually-minded like her mother was.
Can I expect she’ll stay that way on her own?
. . . rise in the wake
of a massive earthquake
with a magnitude of 8.1, which struck . . .
Leaders from around the world
have come together
and made notable statements
on social media today
expressing confidence.
One leader posted:
“Finally, we are seeing global coordination
“that gives us a hope of a secure future.
We have a unique opportunity
to end armed conflict.”
. . . unrest sweeping across the country.
Sadly, our community has been affected
by a soar in gun violence.
As of right now, . . .
If it is just like Noah’s day,
I need to show faith like he did.
. . . are dead,
including a 17-year-old teenager.
Let’s do our family worship.
OK.
I need to show faith in Jehovah
and work hard to save my family.
Did you notice
how our brother acted in faith?
Our brother imagined
what could happen to his daughter
if she lost her spirituality
and adopted the lifestyle of the world.
What he saw really scared him.
He immediately turned off the TV
and joined his daughter for family worship.
Noah knew that building the ark
would save his family from the coming Flood
—but only if they were in the ark with him.
He did not want to see his sons
adopt the lifestyle of his neighbors.
Noah did everything he could to make sure
that he taught his sons to love Jehovah
by his words and his actions.
Parents, by imitating Noah,
you can save both yourself and your family.
Brother Seth Hyatt,
a helper with the Service Committee,
will now consider
the next talk of this symposium,
“Imitate the Faithful,
Not the Faithless—Moses, Not Pharaoh.”